# Yimbo project
Yimbo

Have you ever craved a website dedicated entirely to showcasing African creativity? Look no further than Yimbo, the revolutionary streaming software designed specifically for African content creators and audiences!
We all wanted to invest in this project because of our passion for programming and Africa and decided to use the skills we'd acquired during the ALX SE program to highlight African culture. Through our project, we want the world to discover the richness of African culture through exclusively African content.

Yimbo goes beyond music. It's a one-stop shop for everything Afro-centric offering a platform for podcasts, music, and playlists.

The Team:
Abdoulaye Sadio: Senegal
Abasi-ekeme Sunday Etim: Nigeria
Wisdom: Nigeria

Who needs this?
This project was designed for the public, to help anyone interested in exploring African content.
History:
We are a trio of aspiring software engineers currently enrolled in the intensive 12-month program at ALX AFRICA, a leading online platform for tech education. Having completed the foundational curriculum, which spans the first nine months and equips us with the core principle of software engineering, we embarked on a culminating project to showcase our acquired skills and bolter our professional portfolios. Through collaborative brainstorming, “Yimbo” emerged as the project we were passionate about developing.
As this is a web application, we've decided to use the Flask Python framework for the backend.
We'll also be using MySQL as a database, with Python's MySQLAlchemy library to manage it.
The frontend static part was made with HTML and CSS, while the dynamic part will be generated by the flask framework and jinja2 with also some javascript.
I set up the authentication part of the web application with all the features. The interesting part was the integration of the Google OAuth api via Google and the form validation including the login and registration part.
I also set up the music collection system and interacted with the database with user-specific requests. This part includes adding music to the database by the user (artist) on the site, listen music, etc.
One of the main technical problems encountered was finding an API for streaming. We had also a serious problem integrating the audio play option due to the method used to obtain the file corresponding to the podcast and its playback. This was solved using the power of jinja2 and the database filter
The challenge that made me gain the most experience was integrating the authentication part into a new existing database and communication between the application and the MySQL database. 
As an engineer, I'm aware of how demanding and rigorous this field and the design of a service/web application can be. Each project has its concepts and technologies. It's a field where you're constantly learning and this project consolidates my choice to continue as a backend developer
hashtag#ALX_SE
project's link: https://lnkd.in/ejV8RTqs
